How does a bastard, orphan, son of a whore and a
Scotsman, dropped in the middle of a forgotten
Spot in the Caribbean by providence, impoverished, in squalor
Grow up to be a hero and a scholar?

The ten-dollar Founding Father without a father
Got a lot farther by working a lot harder
By being a lot smarter
By being a self starter
By fourteen, they placed him in charge of a trading charter

And every day while slaves were being slaughtered and carted
Away across the waves, he struggled and kept his guard up
Inside, he was longing for something to be a part of
The brother was ready to beg, steal, borrow, or barter

Then a hurricane came, and devastation reigned
Our man saw his future drip, dripping down the drain
Put a pencil to his temple, connected it to his brain
And he wrote his first refrain, a testament to his pain

Well, the word got around, they said, This kid is insane, man
Took up a collection just to send him to the mainland
“Get your education, don't forget from whence you came, and
The world's gonna know your name. What's your name, man?”

When he was ten his father split, full of it, debt-ridden
Two years later, see Alex and his mother bed-ridden
Half-dead sittin' in their own sick, the scent thick

Moved in with a cousin, the cousin committed suicide
Left him with nothin' but ruined pride, something new inside
A voice saying
Alex, you gotta fend for yourself
He started retreatin' and readin' every treatise on the shelf

There would have been nothin' left to do
For someone less astute
He woulda been dead or destitute
Without a cent of restitution
Started workin', clerkin' for his late mother's landlord
Tradin' sugar cane and rum and all the things he can't afford
Scammin' for every book he can get his hands on
Plannin' for the future see him now as he stands on
The bow of a ship headed for a new land
In New York you can be a new man	 

The ship is in the harbor now
See if you can spot him
Another immigrant
Comin' up from the bottom
His enemies destroyed his rep
America forgot him



1776. New York City
Pardon me. Are you Aaron Burr, sir?
That depends. Who's asking?
Oh, well, sure, sir
I'm Alexander Hamilton, I'm at your service, sir
I have been looking for you
I'm getting nervous
Sir
I heard your name at Princeton. I was seeking an accelerated course of study when I got sort of out of sorts with a buddy of yours. I may have punched him. It's a blur, sir. He handles the financials?
You punched the bursar
Yes!
I wanted to do what you did. Graduate in two, then join the revolution. He looked at me like I was stupid, I'm not stupid
So how'd you do it? How'd you graduate so fast?
It was my parents' dying wish before they passed
You're an orphan. Of course! I'm an orphan
God, I wish there was a war!
Then we could prove that we're worth more
Than anyone bargained for
Can I buy you a drink?
That would be nice
While we're talking, let me offer you some free advice

Talk less
What?
Smile more
Don't let them know what you're against or what you're for
You can't be serious
You wanna get ahead?
Fools who run their mouths off wind up dead

Yo yo yo yo yo!
What time is it?
Show time!
Show time! Show time! Yo!
I'm John Laurens in the place to be!
Two pints o' Sam Adams, but I'm workin' on three, uh!
Those redcoats don't want it with me!
Cuz I will pop chick-a pop these cops till I'm free!

Oui oui, mon ami, je m'appelle Lafayette!
The Lancelot of the revolutionary set!
I came from afar just to say Bonsoir!
Tell the King Casse toi! Who's the best?
C'est moi!

Brrrah brraaah! I am Hercules Mulligan
Up in it, lovin' it, yes I heard ya mother said “Come again?”
Lock up ya daughters and horses, of course
It's hard to have intercourse over four sets of corsets…

No more sex, pour me another brew, son!
Let's raise a couple more
To the revolution!
Well, if it ain't the prodigy of Princeton college!
Aaron Burr!
Give us a verse, drop some knowledge!

Good luck with that: you're takin' a stand
You spit. I'm ‘a sit. We'll see where we land
Burr, the revolution's imminent. What do you stall for?
If you stand for nothing, Burr, what'll you fall for?

Ooh
Who you?
Who you?
Who are you?
Ooh, who is this kid? What's he gonna do?



I am not throwing away my shot!
I am not throwing away my shot!
Hey yo, I'm just like my country
I'm young, scrappy and hungry
And I'm not throwing away my shot!
I'm ‘a get a scholarship to King's College
I prob'ly shouldn't brag, but dag, I amaze and astonish
The problem is I got a lot of brains but no polish
I gotta holler just to be heard
With every word, I drop knowledge!
I'm a diamond in the rough, a shiny piece of coal
Tryin' to reach my goal. My power of speech: unimpeachable
Only nineteen but my mind is older
These New York City streets get colder, I shoulder
Ev'ry burden, ev'ry disadvantage
I have learned to manage, I don't have a gun to brandish
I walk these streets famished
The plan is to fan this spark into a flame
But damn, it's getting dark, so let me spell out the name
I am the
A-L-E-X-A-N-D
E-R we are meant to be
A colony that runs independently
Meanwhile, Britain keeps shittin' on us endlessly
Essentially, they tax us relentlessly
Then King George turns around, runs a spending spree
He ain't ever gonna set his descendants free
So there will be a revolution in this century
Enter me!
He says in parentheses
Don't be shocked when your hist'ry book mentions me
I will lay down my life if it sets us free
Eventually, you'll see my ascendancy

I dream of life without a monarchy
The unrest in France will lead to onarchy?
Onarchy? How you say, how you say, anarchy?
When I fight, I make the other side panicky

Yo, I'm a tailor's apprentice
And I got y'all knuckleheads in loco parentis
I'm joining the rebellion cuz I know it's my chance
To socially advance, instead of sewin' some pants!

But we'll never be truly free
Until those in bondage have the same rights as you and me
You and I. Do or die. Wait till I sally in
On a stallion with the first black battalion

Geniuses, lower your voices
You keep out of trouble and you double your choices
I'm with you, but the situation is fraught
You've got to be carefully taught
If you talk, you're gonna get shot!

Burr, check what we got
Mister Lafayette, hard rock like Lancelot
I think your pants look hot
Laurens, I like you a lot
Let's hatch a plot blacker than the kettle callin' the pot...
What are the odds the gods would put us all in one spot
Poppin' a squat on conventional wisdom, like it or not
A bunch of revolutionary manumission abolitionists?
Give me a position, show me where the ammunition is!

Oh, am I talkin' too loud?
Sometimes I get over excited, shoot off at the mouth
I never had a group of friends before
I promise that I'll make y'all proud
Let's get this guy in front of a crowd

I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory
When's it gonna get me?
In my sleep? Seven feet ahead of me?
If I see it comin', do I run or do I let it be?
Is it like a beat without a melody?
See, I never thought I'd live past twenty
Where I come from some get half as many
Ask anybody why we livin' fast and we laugh, reach for a flask
We have to make this moment last, that's plenty

Scratch that
This is not a moment, it's the movement
Where all the hungriest brothers with
Something to prove went?
Foes oppose us, we take an honest stand
We roll like Moses, claimin' our promised land
And? If we win our independence?
Is that a guarantee of freedom for our descendants?
Or will the blood we shed begin an endless
Cycle of vengeance and death with no defendants?
I know the action in the street is excitin'
But Jesus, between all the bleedin' ‘n fightin'
I've been readin' ‘n writin'
We need to handle our financial situation
Are we a nation of states? What's the state of our nation?
I'm past patiently waitin'. I'm passionately
Smashin' every expectation
Every action's an act of creation!
I'm laughin' in the face of casualties and sorrow
For the first time, I'm thinkin' past tomorrow

There's nothing rich folks love more
Than going downtown and slummin' it with the poor
They pull up in their carriages and gawk
At the students in the common
Just to watch them talk
Take Philip Schuyler: the man is loaded
Uh-oh, but little does he know that
His daughters, Peggy, Angelica, Eliza
Sneak into the city just to watch all the guys at



As a kid in the Caribbean I wished for a war
I knew that I was poor
I knew it was the only way to rise up
If they tell my story
I am either gonna die on the battlefield in glory or rise up
I will fight for this land
But there's only one man
Who can give us a command so we can rise up
Understand? It's the only way to rise up! Rise up!

Can I be real a second?
For just a millisecond?
Let down my guard and tell the people how I feel a second?
Now I'm the model of a modern major general
The venerated Virginian veteran whose men are all
Lining up, to put me up on a pedestal
Writin' letters to relatives
Embellishin' my elegance and eloquence
But the elephant is in the room
The truth is in ya face when ya hear the British cannons go boom!

Any hope of success is fleeting
How can I keep leading when the people I'm
Leading keep retreating?
We put a stop to the bleeding as the British take Brooklyn
Knight takes rook, but look

They're battering down the Battery check the damages
We gotta stop ‘em and rob ‘em of their advantages
Let's take a stand with the stamina God has granted us
Hamilton won't abandon ship
Yo, let's steal their cannons

Boom goes the cannon, watch the blood and the shit spray and
Boom goes the cannon, we're abandoning Kips Bay and
There's another ship and
We just lost the southern tip and
We gotta run to Harlem quick, we can't afford another slip
Guns and horses giddyup
I decide to divvy up
My forces, they're skittish as the British cut the city up
This close to giving up, facing mad scrutiny
I scream in the face of this mass mutiny
Are these the men with which I am to defend America?
We ride at midnight, Manhattan in the distance
I cannot be everywhere at once, people
I'm in dire need of assistance

Your excellency, sir!
Who are you?
Aaron Burr, Sir?
Permission to state my case?
As you were
Sir
I was a captain under General Montgomery
Until he caught a bullet in the neck in Quebec
And well, in summary
I think that I could be of some assistance
I admire how you keep firing on the British
From a distance
I have some questions, a couple of suggestions on how to fight instead of fleeing west
Yes?
Your excellency, you wanted to see me?
Hamilton, come in, have you met Burr?
Yes, sir
We keep meeting
As I was saying, sir, I look forward to seeing your strategy play out
Burr?
Sir?
Close the door on your way out
Have I done something wrong, sir?
On the contrary
I called you here because our odds are beyond scary
Your reputation precedes you, but I have to laugh
Hamilton, how come no one can get you on their staff?
Don't get me wrong, you're a young man of great renown
I know you stole British cannons when we were still downtown
Nathaniel Green and Henry Knox wanted to hire you
Why're you upset?
It's alright, you want to fight, you've got a hunger
I was just like you when I was younger
Head full of fantasies of dyin' like a martyr?
Dying is easy, young man. Living is harder
I'm being honest
I'm working with a third of what our Congress has promised
We are a powder keg about to explode
I need someone like you to lighten the load. So?

You need all the help you can get
I have some friends. Laurens, Mulligan
Marquis de Lafayette, okay, what else?
We'll need some spies on the inside
Some King's men who might let some things slide
I'll write to Congress and tell ‘em we need supplies, you rally the guys,
Master the element of surprise
I'll rise above my station, organize your information, ‘til we rise to the occasion of our new nation



How does the bastard, orphan, son of a whore
Go on and on
Grow into more of a phenomenon?
Watch this obnoxious, arrogant, loudmouth bother
Be seated at the right hand of the father
Washington hires Hamilton right on sight
But Hamilton still wants to fight, not write
Now Hamilton's skill with a quill is undeniable
But what do we have in common? We're
Reliable with the ladies!

There are so many to deflower!
Looks! Proximity to power
They delighted and distracted him
Martha Washington named her feral tomcat after him!

1780, A winter's ball
And the Schuyler sisters are the envy of all
Yo, if you can marry a sister, you're rich, son
Is it a question of if, Burr, or which one?



So so so
So this is what it feels like to match wits
With someone at your level! What the hell is the catch? It's
The feeling of freedom, of seein' the light
It's Ben Franklin with a key and a kite! You see it, right?
The conversation lasted two minutes, maybe three minutes
Ev'rything we said in total agreement, it's
A dream and it's a bit of a dance
A bit of a posture, it's a bit of a stance. He's a
Bit of a flirt, but I'm ‘a give it a chance
I asked about his fam'ly, did you see his answer?
His hands started fidgeting, he looked askance?
He's penniless, he's flying by the seat of his pants

Handsome, boy, does he know it!
Peach fuzz, and he can't even grow it!
I wanna take him far away from this place
Then I turn and see my sister's face and she is

I'm a girl in a world in which
My only job is to marry rich
My father has no sons so I'm the one
Who has to social climb for one
So I'm the oldest and the wittiest and the gossip in
New York City is insidious
And Alexander is penniless
Ha! That doesn't mean I want him any less

He's after me cuz I'm a Schuyler sister
That elevates his status, I'd
Have to be naïve to set that aside
Maybe that is why I introduce him to Eliza
Now that's his bride
Nice going, Angelica, he was right
You will never be satisfied

I know my sister like I know my own mind
You will never find anyone as trusting or as kind
If I tell her that I love him she'd be silently resigned
He'd be mine
She would say, I'm fine
She'd be lying



I have never seen the General so despondent
I have taken over writing all his correspondence
Congress writes, George, attack the British forces.
I shoot back, we have resorted to eating our horses
Local merchants deny us equipment, assistance
They only take British money, so sing a song of sixpence

I go back to New York and my apprenticeship
I ask for French aid, I pray that France has sent a ship
I stay at work with Hamilton
We write essays against slavery
And every day's a test of our camaraderie and bravery
We cut supply lines, we steal contraband
We pick and choose our battles and places to take a stand
And every day
Sir, entrust me with a command
And every day
No, he dismisses me out of hand

Instead of me
He promotes
Charles Lee
Makes him second-in-command
I'm a General. Whee!!!!
Yeah. He's not the choice I would have gone with
He shits the bed at the Battle of Monmouth

A thousand soldiers die in a hundred degree heat
As we snatch a stalemate from the jaws of defeat
Charles Lee was left behind
Without a pot to piss in
He started sayin' this to anybody who would listen
Washington cannot be left alone to his devices
Indecisive, from crisis to crisis
The best thing he can do for the revolution
Is turn n' go back to plantin' tobacco in Mount Vernon



Monsieur Hamilton
Monsieur Lafayette
In command where you belong
How you say, no sweat
We're finally on the field. We've had quite a run
Immigrants, we get the job done
So what happens if we win?
I go back to France
I bring freedom to my people if I'm given the chance
We'll be with you when you do
Go lead your men
See you on the other side
‘Til we meet again

I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory
This is where it gets me: on my feet
The enemy ahead of me
If this is the end of me, at least I have a friend with me
Weapon in my hand, a command, and my men with me
Then I remember my Eliza's expecting me
Not only that, my Eliza's expecting
We gotta go, gotta get the job done
Gotta start a new nation, gotta meet my son!
Take the bullets out your gun!
The bullets out your gun!
We move under cover and we move as one
Through the night, we have one shot to live another day
We cannot let a stray gunshot give us away
We will fight up close, seize the moment and stay in it
It's either that or meet the business end of a bayonet
The code word is Rochambeau, dig me?
You have your orders now, go, man, go!
And so the American experiment begins
With my friends all scattered to the winds
Laurens is in South Carolina, redefining bravery
We'll never be free until we end slavery!
When we finally drive the British away
Lafayette is there waiting in Chesapeake Bay!
How did we know that this plan would work?
We had a spy on the inside. That's right

A tailor spyin' on the British government!
I take their measurements, information and then I smuggle it
To my brother's revolutionary covenant
I'm runnin' with the Sons of Liberty and I am lovin' it!
See, that's what happens when you up against the ruffians
We in the shit now, somebody gotta shovel it!
Hercules Mulligan, I need no introduction
When you knock me down I get the fuck back up again!

We negotiate the terms of surrender
I see George Washington smile
We escort their men out of Yorktown
They stagger home single file
Tens of thousands of people flood the streets
There are screams and church bells ringing
And as our fallen foes retreat
I hear the drinking song they're singing

How does the bastard orphan
Immigrant decorated war vet
Unite the colonies through more debt?
Fight the other founding fathers til he has to forfeit?
Have it all, lose it all
You ready for more yet?
Treasury Secretary. Washington's the President
Ev'ry American experiment sets a precedent
Not so fast. Someone came along to resist him
Pissed him off until we had a two-party system
You haven't met him yet, you haven't had the chance
‘cause he's been kickin' ass as the ambassador to France
But someone's gotta keep the American promise
You simply must meet Thomas. Thomas!


‘Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.'
We fought for these ideals; we shouldn't settle for less
These are wise words, enterprising men quote ‘em
Don't act surprised, you guys, cuz I wrote ‘em

But Hamilton forgets
His plan would have the government assume state's debts
Now, place your bets as to who that benefits:
The very seat of government where Hamilton sits

Ooh, if the shoe fits, wear it
If New York's in debt—
Why should Virginia bear it? Uh! Our debts are paid, I'm afraid
Don't tax the South cuz we got it made in the shade
In Virginia, we plant seeds in the ground
We create. You just wanna move our money around
This financial plan is an outrageous demand
And it's too many damn pages for any man to understand
Stand with me in the land of the free
And pray to God we never see Hamilton's candidacy
Look, when Britain taxed our tea, we got frisky
Imagine what gon' happen when you try to tax our whisky

Thomas. That was a real nice declaration
Welcome to the present, we're running a real nation
Would you like to join us, or stay mellow
Doin' whatever the hell it is you do in Monticello?
If we assume the debts, the union gets
A new line of credit, a financial diuretic
How do you not get it? If we're aggressive and competitive
The union gets a boost. You'd rather give it a sedative?
A civics lesson from a slaver. Hey neighbor
Your debts are paid cuz you don't pay for labor
“We plant seeds in the South. We create.”
Yeah, keep ranting
We know who's really doing the planting
And another thing, Mr. Age of Enlightenment
Don't lecture me about the war, you didn't fight in it
You think I'm frightened of you, man?
We almost died in a trench
While you were off getting high with the French
Thomas Jefferson, always hesitant with the President
Reticent—there isn't a plan he doesn't jettison
Madison, you're mad as a hatter, son, take your medicine
Damn, you're in worse shape than the national debt is in
Sittin' there useless as two shits
Hey, turn around, bend over, I'll show you
Where my shoe fits

I hadn't slept in a week
I was weak, I was awake
You never seen a bastard orphan
More in need of a break
Longing for Angelica
Missing my wife
That's when Miss Maria Reynolds walked into my life, she said:

Then I said, “well, I should head back home,”
She turned red, she led me to her bed
Let her legs spread and said:

That's when I began to pray:
Lord, show me how to
Say no to this
I don't know how to
Say no to this

But my God, she looks so helpless
And her body's saying, “hell, yes”
I hid the letter and I raced to her place
Screamed “How could you?!” in her face

Burr?
Since when are you a Democratic-Republican?
Since being one put me on the up and up again
No one knows who you are or what you do
They don't need to know me
They don't like you
Excuse me?
Oh, Wall Street thinks you're great
You'll always be adored by the things you create
But upstate Wait
people think you're crooked
Schuyler's seat was up for grabs so I took it
I've always considered you a friend
I don't see why that has to end
You changed parties to run against my father-in-law
I changed parties to seize the opportunity I saw
I swear your pride will be the death of us all
Beware, it goeth before the fall


When we were on death's door
When we were needy
We made a promise
We signed a treaty
We need money and guns and half a chance
Uh, who provided those funds?
France.

In return, they didn't ask for land,
Only a promise that we'd lend a hand
And stand with them
If they fought against oppressors
And revolution is messy
But now is the time to stand!
Stand with our brothers
As they fight against tyranny.
I know that Alexander Hamilton is here and he
Would rather not have this debate;
I'll remind you that he is not Secretary of State!
He knows nothing of loyalty
Smells like new money, dresses like fake royalty
Desperate to rise above his station,
Everything he does betrays the ideals of our nation.
Hey, and if you don't know, now you know, Mr. President.

You must be out of your goddamn mind
If you think
The President is going to bring the nation to the brink
Of meddling in the middle of a military mess,
A game of chess,
Where France is Queen and King-less.
We signed a treaty with a King whose head is now in a basket,
Would you like to take it out and ask it?
Should we honor our treaty, King Louis's head?
“Uh, do whatever you want I'm super dead!”

Enough enough, Hamilton is right.
Mr. President!
We're too fragile to start another fight.

But sir, do we not fight for freedom?
Sure, when the French figure out who's gonna lead ‘em.
The people are leading!
The people are rioting! There's a difference!
Frankly it's a little disquieting you would let your ideals blind you to reality!
Hamilton?
Sir
Draft the statement of neutrality.
Did you forget Lafayette?
Have you an ounce of regret?
You accumulate debt, you accumulate power.
Yet in their hour of need, you forget.
Lafayette's a smart man, he'll be fine.
And before he was your friend, he was mine.
If we try to fight in every revolution in the world,
We never stop. Where do we draw the line?
So quick witted.
Alas, I admit it.
I bet you were quite a lawyer.
My defendants got acquitted
Yeah, well someone ought to remind you
You're nothing without Washington behind you.


Your son is nine years old today
Has something he'd like to say
He's been practicing all day
Philip, take it away

Ev'ry action has its equal, opposite reactions.
Thanks to Hamilton, our cabinet's fractured into factions.
Try not to crack under the stress, we're breaking down like fractions.
We smack each other in the press, and we don't print retractions
I get no satisfaction witnessing his fits of passion
The way he primps and preens and dresses like the pits of fashion
Our poorest citizens, our farmers, live ration to ration
As Wall Street robs ‘em blind in search of chips to cash in
This prick is asking for someone to bring him to task
Somebody give me some dirt on this vacuous mass so we can at last unmask him
I'll pull the trigger on him, someone load the gun and cock it
While we were all watching, he got Washington in his pocket

So he's doubled the size of the government 
Wasn't the trouble with much of our previous government size
Look in his eyes, see how he lies, follow the scent of his enterprise
Centralizing national credit and making American credit competitive
If we don't stop it, we aid and abet it.
I have to resign!
Somebody has to stand up for the South! 
Well, somebody has to stand up to his mouth!
If there's a fire you're trying to douse, 
You can't put it out from inside the house! 
I'm in the cabinet, I am complicit in watching him grabbin' at power and kiss it.
If Washington isn't gon' listen to disciplined dissidents, 
This is the difference, this kid is OUT!

How does Hamilton,
the short-tempered, protean creator
of the coast guard,
founder of the New York Post
ardently abuse his cabinet post
destroy his reputation?
Welcome folks, to the Adam's Admistration.
Jefferson's the runner-up
which makes him the vice-president,

Washington can't help you now,
no more Mr. nice President
Adams fires Hamilton,
Privatley calls him creole bastard in his toss
Hamilton publishes his response.

We have the check stubs. From separate accounts…
Almost a thousand dollars, paid in different amounts…
To a Mr. James Reynolds way back in
Seventeen ninety-one
Is that what you have? Are you done?
You are uniquely situated by virtue of your position
Though ‘virtue' is not a word I'd apply to this situation
To seek financial gain, to stray from your sacred mission
And the evidence suggests you've engaged in speculation
An immigrant embezzling our government funds
I can almost see the headline, your career is done
I hope you saved some money for your daughter and sons
Ya best g'wan run back where ya come from!
Ha! You don't even know what you're asking me to confess
Confess
You got nothing. I don't have to tell you anything at all
If I can prove that I never broke the law
Do you promise not to tell another soul what you saw?
No one else was in the room where it happened
Is that a yes?
Um, yes
“Dear Sir, I hope this letter finds you in good health
And in a prosperous enough position to put wealth
In the pockets of people like me: down on their luck
You see, it was my wife who you decided to”
She courted me
Escorted me to bed and when she had me in a corner
That's when Reynolds extorted me
For a sordid fee
I paid him quarterly
I may have mortally wounded my prospects
But my papers are orderly!
As you can see I kept a record of every check in my checkered
History. Check it again against your list n' see consistency
I never spent a cent that wasn't mine
You sent the dogs after my scent, that's fine
Yes, I have reasons for shame
But I have not committed treason and sullied my good name
As you can see I have done nothing to provoke legal action
Are my answers to your satisfaction?
My God
Gentlemen, let's go
So?
The people won't know what we know
How do I know you won't use this against me
The next time we go toe to toe?
Alexander, rumors only grow. And we both
Know what we know

Meet the latest graduate of King's College!
I prob'ly shouldn't brag, but, dag, I amaze and astonish!
The scholars say I got the same virtuosity and brains as my pops!
The ladies say my brain's not where the resemblance stops!
I'm only nineteen but my mind is older
Gotta be my own man, like my father, but bolder
I shoulder his legacy with pride
I used to hear him say
That someday
I would—

Blow us all away
Ladies, I'm lookin for a Mr. George Eacker
Made a speech last week, our Fourth of July speaker
He disparaged my father's legacy in front of a crowd
I can't have that, I'm making my father proud
I saw him just up Broadway a couple of blocks
He was goin' to see a play
Well, I'll go visit his box
God, you're a fox
And y'all look pretty good in ya' frocks
How ‘bout when I get back, we all strip down to our socks?
Ok!
Blow us all away!
Shh! I'm tryin' to watch the show!
Ya' shoulda watched your mouth before you
Talked about my father though!
I didn't say anything that wasn't true
You father's a scoundrel, and so, it seems, are you
It's like that?
Yeah, I don't fool around
I'm not your little schoolboy friends
See you on the dueling ground
That is, unless you wanna step outside and go now
I know where to find you, piss off
I'm watchin' this show now
Pops, if you had only heard the shit he said about you
I doubt you would have let it slide and I was not about to—
Slow down
I came to ask you for advice. This is my very first duel
They don't exactly cover this subject in boarding school
Did your friends attempt to negotiate a peace?
He refused to apologize, we had to let the peace talks cease
Where is this happening?
Across the river, in Jersey
Everything is legal in New Jersey…
Alright. So this is what you're gonna do:
Stand there like a man until Eacker is in front of you
When the time comes, fire your weapon in the air
This will put an end to the whole affair
But what if he decides to shoot? Then I'm a goner
No. He'll follow suit if he's truly a man of honor
To take someone's life, that is something you can't shake
Philip, your mother can't take another heartbreak
Father—
Promise me. You don't want this
Young man's blood on your conscience
Come back home when you're done
Take my guns. Be smart. Make me proud, son

My name is Philip
I am a poet
I'm a little nervous, but I can't show it
I'm sorry, I'm a Hamilton with pride
You talk about my father, I cannot let it slide
Mister Eacker! How was the rest of your show?
I'd rather skip the pleasantries
Let's go
Grab your pistol
Confer with your men
The duel will commence after we count to ten
Count to ten!
Look ‘em in the eye, aim no higher
Summon all the courage you require
Then slowly and clearly aim your gun towards the sky—

Every action has its equal opposite reaction
John Adams shat the bed; I love the guy, but he's in traction
Poor Alexander Hamilton, he is missing in action
So now I'm facing Aaron Burr with his own faction

He's very attractive in the North, New Yorkers like his chances
He's not very forthcoming on any particular stances
Ask him a question, it glances off, he obfuscates, he dances
And they say I'm a Francophile, at least they know I know where France is

Thomas, that's the problem; see, they see Burr as a less extreme you
You need to change course, a key endorsement might redeem you

Who did you have in mind?
Don't laugh
Who is it?
You used to work on the same staff.


I don't like Adams! Well, he's gonna lose, that's just defeatist.
And Jefferson? In love with France! Yeah, he's so elitist!
I like that Aaron Burr! I can't believe we're here with him!
He seems approachable? Like you could grab a beer with him

Well, if isn't Aaron Burr, sir.
You've created quite a stir, sir.
I'm going door to door!
You're openly campaigning?
Sure!
That's new.
Honestly, it's kind of draining
Is there anything you wouldn't do?
No, I'm chasing what I want, and you know what?
I learned that from you

The people are asking to hear my voice
But the country is facing a difficult choice
And you were to ask me who I'd promote…
Jefferson has my vote
I have never agreed with Jefferson once…
We have fought on like 75 different fronts
But when all said and all is done…
Jefferson has beliefs; Burr has none

How does Hamilton
An arrogant
Immigrant, orphan
Bastard, whoreson
Somehow endorse
Thomas Jefferson, his enemy
A man he's despised since the beginning
Just to keep me from winning?

I am not the reason no one trusts you
No one knows what you believe
I will not equivocate on my opinion
I have always worn it on my sleeve
Even if I said what you think I said
You would need to cite a more specific grievance
Here's an itemized list of thirty years of disagreements

Hey, I have not been shy
I am just a guy in the public eye
Tryin' to do my best for our republic
I don't wanna fight
But I won't apologize for doing what's right

There are ten things you need to know
We rowed across the Hudson at dawn
My friend, William P. Van Ness signed on as my—
Hamilton arrived with his crew:
Nathaniel Pendleton and a doctor that he knew
I watched Hamilton examine the terrain
I wish I could tell you what was happ'ning in his brain
This man has poisoned my political pursuits!
Most disputes die and no one shoots!
Hamilton drew first position
Looking, to the world, like a man on a mission
This is a soldier with a marksman's ability
The doctor turned around so he could have deniability
Now I didn't know this at the time

He examined his gun with such rigor?
I watched as he methodically fiddled with the trigger
Confession time? here's what I got:
My fellow soldiers'll tell you I'm a terrible shot
Your last chance to negotiate
Send in your seconds, see if they can set the record straight
They won't teach you this in your classes
But look it up, Hamilton was wearing his glasses
Why? If not to take deadly aim?
It's him or me, the world will never be the same
I had only one thought before the slaughter:
This man will not make an orphan of my daughter

Look him in the eye, aim no higher
Summon all the courage you require
Then count
One two three four five six seven eight nine
Number ten paces! Fire!—

I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory
Is this where it gets me, on my feet, sev'ral feet ahead of me?
I see it coming, do I run or fire my gun or let it be?
There is no beat, no melody
Burr, my first friend, my enemy
Maybe the last face I ever see
If I throw away my shot, is this how you'll remember me?
What if this bullet is my legacy?

Legacy. What is a legacy?
It's planting seeds in a garden you never get to see
I wrote some notes at the beginning of a song someone will sing for me
America, you great unfinished symphony, you sent for me
You let me make a difference
A place where even orphan immigrants
Can leave their fingerprints and rise up
I'm running out of time. I'm running, and my time's up
Wise up. Eyes up
I catch a glimpse of the other side
Laurens leads a soldiers' chorus on the other side
My son is on the other side
He's with my mother on the other side
Washington is watching from the other side

The challenge: demand satisfaction
If they apologize, no need for further action
If they don't, grab a friend, that's your second
Your lieutenant when there's reckoning to be reckoned

Have your seconds meet face to face
Negotiate a peace…
Or negotiate a time and place
This is commonplace, ‘specially ‘tween recruits
Most disputes die, and no one shoots

If they don't reach a peace, that's alright
Time to get some pistols and a doctor on site
You pay him in advance, you treat him with civility
You have him turn around so he can hav

How does a ragtag volunteer army in need of a shower
Somehow defeat a global superpower?
How do we emerge victorious from the quagmire?
Leave the battlefield waving Betsy Ross' flag higher?
Yo. Turns out we have a secret weapon!
An immigrant you know and love who's unafraid to step in!
He's constantly confusin', confoundin' the British henchmen
Ev'ryone give it up for America's favorite fighting Frenchman!

I'm takin this horse by the reins makin'
Redcoats redder with bloodstains
And I'm never gonna stop until I make ‘em
Drop and burn ‘em up and scatter their remains, I'm
Watch me engagin' em! Escapin' em!
Enragin' em! I'm—

I go to France for more funds
I come back with more
Guns And ships And so the balance shifts
We rendezvous with Rochambeau, consolidate their gifts

We can end this war at Yorktown, cut them off at sea, but
For this to succeed, there is someone else we need Hamilton!

Sir, he knows what to do in a trench
Ingenuitive and fluent in French, I mean Hamilton!

Sir, you're gonna have to use him eventually
What's he gonna do on the bench? I mean Hamilton!

No one has more resilience
Or matches my practical tactical brilliance Hamilton!

You wanna fight for your land back?
I need my right hand man back!

I mean you gotta put                                         
some thought into the letter                           
but the sooner the better                                   
To get your right hand man back!

Alexander Hamilton
Troops are waiting in the field for you
If you join us right now, together we can turn the tide
Oh, Alexander Hamilton
I have soldiers that will yield for you
If we manage to get this right
They'll surrender by early light
The world will never be the same, Alexander…e deniability

Duel before the sun is in the sky
Pick a place to die where it's high and dry

Leave a note for your next of kin
Tell ‘em where you been. Pray that hell or heaven lets you in

Confess your sins. Ready for the moment of adrenaline when you finally face your opponent

Your last chance to negotiate
Send in your seconds, see if they can set the record straight…

Can we agree that duels are dumb and immature?
But your man has to answer for his words, Burr
With his life? We both know that's absurd, sir
Hang on, how many men died because Lee was inexperienced and ruinous?
Okay, so we're doin' this

Look ‘em in the eye, aim no higher
Summon all the courage you require

Even though we started at the very same time
Alexander Hamilton began to climb
How to account for his rise to the top?
Maaaaan, the man is                            
Non-stop!                                        

Gentlemen of the jury, I'm curious, bear with me
Are you aware that we're making hist'ry?
This is the first murder trial of our brand-new nation
The liberty behind
Deliberation—                                    


